all right we're here to demonstrate the
use of an Elizabethan collar and how to
put one together and how to put it on
the dog and why the reason why is we
want the dog's head to be controlled so
that we're able to have him not reach
the part of his body by either flank or
an incision or bandage and he can't lick
or chew on it or remove stitches so this
is why we put them on a dog they come in
two types they come in two clear and the
frosty this one is a clear so the dog
can see he doesn't lose his peripheral
vision as much with the frosty you can't
see what straight ahead and goes into a
tunnel vision situation by the water
step to put one together and take the
measurement of the dog and then you just
loop the loops through in and out
according to the size this has one size
to a size three sizes the size your
first of the neck the this is the part
that's important that it's going to be
beyond the dog's nose if it's the nose
is here the dog can still do damage if
it's in here you can't do anything then
a loop or a collar is put through the
loops here and then it's put on the dog
in this tie in place like the cooking
shows we even have one ready this would
be a clear type this would be a type
that comes with a Velcro and the velcro
is movable and you put it to where you
want it and then you cut the excess off
this is a little large for him would you
see that it's much clearer and you can
see through it it's not a model that I
particularly like
here we have one already made it's a bit
small for George little use for
demonstration we have the size of the
crawler size of the head and push it
onto the dog's head it's got to be a
tight fit it can't be a slack fit fully
ears through if it's too slack up it
will come off too easily you see that
it's pretty tight on the dog to make it
stay on the dog that you can't pull it
off we're going to run up a God's true
helping George help me yeah see if we
put the guys I'll double the guys up to
give it strength release it through each
of the loops that we made for the garden
George Bush and then we will type we use
whoops we use a bomb to type
we don't use a any other type of not and
it's got to be tied relatively tight not
enough but just tight on the dog so that
the dog hasn't tight enough he cannot
slip it over his head the idea is it's
supposed to stay on the dog if it's not
on the dog is not doing this function
dogs with a longer one this is a little
short for George with a longer one they
have to learn how to eat and drink
because they have to put the hood over
the bowl so there's a certain learning
curve for the dog when he puts it on
it's not meant to hurt the dog it's not
meant to to be mean to the dog in any
way it is meant as a control method of
keeping the teeth and the tongue away
from a part of the body which the dog is
interested in licking or chewing on
thank you very much stretch take it off
you slide it over the head and it just
comes off over there this one's a little
tight a George I made a little tight for
demonstration you're too small to dog
George
there you go did you live through the
experience yeah here have a cookie